Welcome, everyone, to the Data Science Hangout. And welcome back to many of you have joined
us here in the following past few weeks. But just for anyone who's new to this, and to
Joel, thank you so much for joining us. This is an open space for current and aspiring
data science leaders to just be able to connect and ask each other questions. And really,
today, Joel, we're excited to be able to pick your brain a little bit. And so for the sessions,
we really want to focus on any questions that are most important to you all here. So you can
jump in live or put questions in the chat. And we also have a Slido link, which Rob will put in the
chat window right now. So you can ask anonymous questions there too. But just a little heads up
that it will be recorded for people that missed it. So it'll be shared up to YouTube. But you
always have that option of anonymous questions as well. But I'm so grateful to be joined by my
co host for today, Joel Pepera, the Director of Data Science at GEICO. And Joel, I'd love to have
you introduce yourself and maybe share a bit about your team and the work that you do.
Sure, absolutely. And thank you for having me. I'm excited to talk to everyone today.
As Rachel mentioned, I am the Director of Data Science at GEICO. Pretty much all of the data
science activities roll up through me. We do have other analytics teams and professionals
scattered throughout other parts of the organization. But all the core data science
work that we do falls under my purview. I've been at GEICO for quite a long time,
coming up on 14 years. My professional background is primarily in the actuarial space. So I'm a
credentialed actuary, which is an insurance specific profession. It deals with a lot of
things that are, let's say, similar to data science. So using data and predictive analytics
and statistics to estimate things, predict values of interest. And in insurance, it's primarily
assessing customer risk so that we can understand that from a pricing and financial planning
perspective. So that's what I did for most of my early career. And then about three or four years
ago, pivoted into a broader data science role. And we've been building up our team and our
capabilities within GEICO pretty aggressively. At GEICO, we focus on three main areas of impact for
data science. One is in our product development area. The second is in our customer experience,
dealing with how we interact with customers in marketing channels, customer service channels,
et cetera. And then the third major area is our claims division, which deals with how we assess
damages and injuries when people are involved in auto accidents. There's a lot of interesting
use cases there around fraud detection or triaging, estimating payment amounts and things like that.
Some use cases, I think dealing with data and statistics is not new, but certainly a lot
of the technological evolution going on, not just in insurance, but more broadly is
causing us to think a little bit differently about things than we have in the past. And it opens up
a lot of really exciting opportunities for us to mature and move forward as a company.
One of the primary areas that I'm most excited about right now is telematics, which for those
who aren't familiar is an initiative within insurance and other industries as well, where
due to the technology on modern smartphones or increasingly technology embedded in vehicles
directly, we can, with the customer's consent, of course, understand in a very detailed granular way
how our customers or potential customers are operating their vehicle and get a much
more granular assessment of the risk profile. So that's something that I think in general is
a big focus for companies in auto insurance and certainly Geico is among them. So
there's a lot of really exciting potential for data science in that domain in particular.
That's awesome. And so the team's just starting now to use telematics or how are you starting to
do this today? Yeah, well, I wouldn't say we're starting. We've been working with this for a
little bit now. It's not, I think, a new phenomenon in insurance. Some companies have been, at least
in an R&D capacity, been working on this for several years. But I think several market factors
are increasing the focus. One is just the technology is changing. Smartphones are obviously
ubiquitous now, and that provides a cost-effective way of collecting data. I also think that
consumer attitudes around privacy and sharing data are evolving. Of course, there are still
concerns, and that will continue to be a factor. But I really think the pandemic has impacted that
in some meaningful ways. Obviously, when lockdown started occurring, people's driving behavior
changed, and therefore, their risk exposure changed. And one of the things we saw was people
were realizing, my insurance rates aren't as responsive as maybe they ought to be to how
my use of my vehicle is changing. And you saw a lot of companies do some large-scale measures
to provide people discounts or refund premiums and things like that. But I think it's also
pointing to an opportunity to just have a pricing model that is, in general, more responsive
to how people are operating their vehicle. And that creates a value proposition that I think
more people are comfortable with in terms of exchanging some of their data, some of their
data for that value. And how does the team, or I'm just curious myself, how does the team
get all of that data? It seems like there's so many different streams of data that would be
coming in. Yeah, it's a good question. So you pretty much have to have a cloud-based approach
here. We're talking about sensor-level data. It's very large volumes, and we're talking petabyte
scale. It really kind of depends on how many customers and what your enrollment rates look
like. But for us, it's very large. So it's a significant data engineering effort to collect
that data, curate it, make it ready for applying models, training, and inferencing on those data
feeds. So it's a big effort. I would say it's at least as big on the data engineering side as it
is on the data science and machine learning side. So those two things go hand in hand. I mean,
I think that's true in general with data science, but in particular, at the scale we're talking,
that's a critical consideration. Definitely. I'm starting to see a few questions coming in from
the audience. And Chris, I see you just asked one in the chat. Do you want to
ask that live and introduce yourself?
Sure, absolutely. Hello, everyone. I'm Chris Scheibel. I have been doing data analytics
for the past 24 years, active duty military, retired, and now got myself slid into a data
science role. So some of the things that I'm trying to get more collective on besides
all the statistical stuff in that is understanding more of the tools that my fellow data scientists
out there that are using, besides the fact of, you know, things like Python, Pandas.
I know RStudio is a big thing. I'm currently working on Shiny applications where I'm at as
well. But I was just kind of curious as far as maybe some of the other tools out there that
folks are using that I might be able to dive into and utilize.
Yeah, good question. I think you listed off a lot of the key ones, you know, from a,
certainly from a machine learning model training perspective, R and Python are kind of the core
languages. Our team, I would say, mostly develops in Python, but there are some users in Geico
that are heavy R users as well. So both of those, I think, are great languages to learn.
You know, sort of the dirty secret, although I don't think it's a secret anymore about data
sciences, you spend a lot of your time in data preparation. So I think the more adept you are
with languages like SQL or Spark is a big one that we use a lot just based on the scale of our data.
So learning languages, like Scala, or, you know, the SQL interface into Spark, we often use
PySpark pretty heavily. So you know, there are different interfaces into Spark, but just being
comfortable with optimizing data processing jobs in a distributed setting, I think is a good
investment of time. For us, it's mainly a combination of Spark and Python with a good
amount of SQL as well. And then I think a lot of it sort of depends on, you know, beyond that,
which I think is the core, a lot of it depends on what the role of a data scientist is in a
particular company. And that can vary quite a bit. Some of them find themselves more
involved in some of the low-level data engineering, where you might want to
familiarize yourself with data ingestion technologies, you know, Kafka or,
you know, some of the streaming technologies. Some data scientists tend to find themselves
getting more involved in the front-end development, you know, where they might
need to use, you know, web development technologies, JavaScript, those sorts of things. So
some of that will depend on just where you're situated in the overall kind of development stack.
But I would say Spark, SQL, and Python are kind of the core technologies that I would focus on.
Thank you for that insight, Joel. I greatly appreciate that. And now that means I can
go ahead and add to my list of things I need to start learning.
Sounds good. As a, I guess, kind of a follow-up question to that, Trevor, I see you're asking
around how much time does the team spend doing data analytics versus data science?
Trevor, did you want to jump in and add any context there?
Good morning. Good morning again, or good afternoon, depending on where you are.
I'm just very curious, you know, the field of data science continues to evolve.
I've seen so many definitions of data science, so many definitions of data analytics.
I think the conclusion I'm working with in terms of defining data science is more around
building predictive models. I mean, that's where I see the literature going towards. So I know
that not all the problems that we try to solve in a company can be solved by data science.
Some of it is actually analyzing basic data, basic descriptions. So I really wanted to find out,
most times when I talk to people on data science teams, I really want to find out
how much of their time is really spent building, fine-tuning, maintaining models
as in data science versus trying to answer everyday basic questions.
Yeah, I think a good question. As you mentioned, this can vary quite a bit across different
industries or different companies within the industry. And I think a lot of it depends on
the overall maturity of their organization from a sort of data and analytics perspective.
At GEICO, we have a lot of traditional analytics teams that will apply statistical methods or
various analytical techniques to derive insights, make recommendations to
some business consumers, build reports and those sorts of things. So at GEICO, our data science
team tries to focus more on core data science work, which I would consider to be, like you
mentioned, training predictive models, building machine learning systems, and most
of what we do is large-scale systems that can directly impact business processes through some
kind of production implementation. So that, I think, for us at least, is the big difference,
the focus on machine learning. I think one differentiator I would also draw is our data
scientists tend to be more comfortable working with lower-level data or data in different formats.
So not only are they more comfortable working with machine learning, but they're also more
comfortable working with data in different formats. So not just consuming data from databases,
but getting into semi-structured, unstructured data, being able to curate those views themselves,
clean the data, manipulate the data, build features out of it. Most of the analysts we see
tend to be more comfortable consuming data that's already been
structured into a database, and they're doing more of the high-level analysis on top of it.
So that's another distinction I draw. And then I also think that the focus on putting code into
production is something that data scientists tend to do more so than analysts. So building a model,
deriving insights from it, building reports is important, but there's sort of another level
of consideration when you have to think about how a model is going to interact in a production
process. What data is going to be available? What's the context of a prediction within a
business process? How is the data going to be fed through that model? Those are some really
important and can be very tricky considerations that if you're not building models, you're not
that if you're not building models for production, you don't really have to think about.
So that's sort of how I think about the distinction within Geico. That said, these
terms are fluid across the industry. What I described in terms of a data scientist at Geico,
another company might think of as an ML engineer. So I think it's really important if you're
interviewing for a company or considering different jobs to really understand what is the
role for this person in this company, regardless of what the title is.
And I feel like this question of data analysts or data science seems to come up in a lot of
conversations as well. And I know it might be different for some larger organizations
versus smaller startups, but would data analysts sit on a much different team than yours? Or
do you have both data analysts and data scientists? Within Geico, they're in a different
team, but we would work collaboratively with them. So anytime we take on a use case,
we would typically identify partners on a business analyst team, a business process team,
data engineering, and if there's an application team involved,
we sort of build these cross-functional teams to address a particular problem.
I don't think that's the only model. I think a lot of companies combine them on the same team,
and we've considered the pros and cons of that as well. So I think a lot of times there's
fluidity between the roles. And especially at smaller companies, I think data scientists are
often asked to wear many hats, just depending on what that company needs at the time. Maybe
the best way to help them is by creating a dashboard or putting out some basic summary
statistics and analysis on that. I think a lot of data scientists I've run into and interviewing
in just different settings kind of get frustrated by that because they come into the job, the
industry thinking, you know, I'm going to build machine learning models, or I'm going to do deep
learning. And I certainly think it's important to find a role that fits in with what you're
looking for. But I would also stress that, especially early in your career, being willing
to kind of roll your sleeves up and get involved in whatever's needed is really critical. And you'll
develop a lot of good experience in that as well. So even if you find yourself doing a lot of low
level database work, and it's not really what you're looking for long term, I think there's
a lot of valuable learning to that. So I would certainly encourage you to take advantage of
those opportunities and be flexible and willing to contribute value however you can for the company
that you're working with. Definitely. Thank you, Joel. And I'm seeing quite a few anonymous
questions coming in as well from Slido. And kind of going back to what you were initially talking
about, about things that changed during the pandemic and looking more into, or when people
were driving less, did the pandemic force more data science resources to be put into front facing
customer experience initiatives? It's hard for me to say broadly. I don't, that was certainly not
the case at GEICO. We're a bigger organization, so we have more specialization and teams that kind
of focus on those aspects. It definitely impacted us to a degree. You know, initiatives that we were
working on were maybe steered in a direction that could directly contribute to something more
pandemic related. So I think there were some small examples of that, but I don't think it was
a wholesale redirection of resources within our company, at least. I would strongly suspect that
that answer would be different at other companies. I think in insurance, we were certainly fortunate
to not be as directly impacted as some other companies like service industry, for example,
hotel industries. There were huge impacts for some of those areas, and
I expect the answer would be different for people working there.
Thank you. I'll jump back to a few of the anonymous questions in a second here as well,
but I see, Frank, you weighed in in the chat. Would you want to jump in and ask that question
live too? It's hard for me not to ask questions, so thank you. Joel, you got me really curious
talking about data and models and then figuring out how to give safer drivers better rates.
It got my mind thinking again about this is sort of a data governance question, and you could say,
you know what, we're only using the data for people that opt in, but sort of automatically
by doing that, you're learning about the people that don't opt in. I'm kind of curious, what is
your experience? Do you have any comments or thoughts on what I see as sort of a moral hazard
there? Yeah, that's a great question. That's something I think we had talked about for years
as a sort of complicating factor for moving forward with telematics. If it's an opt-in program,
you've got some self-selection bias, and you sort of have to think through whether the economic
incentives of that align with your business goals. I guess one thing I would say is
there are different ways of getting telematics information, and some of them have higher
adoption rates, higher opt-in rates than others. So, you know, for example, one source is connected
vehicles, and people may or may not know this, but when you're at the dealership
buying a car, and you're signing through the million sheets of paper or whatever, one of those
is in all likelihood opting into some sort of monitoring for your driving behavior.
It might be bundled in with some kind of entertainment package or OnStar or SiriusXM or
whatever. So, you know, there's some ethical considerations there, of course, but that also
does kind of shape a little bit of the objectivity or the comprehensiveness of the data that you
have access to. To the larger question, though, I think this honestly just has to, it's an evolving
picture, right? So, initially, you'll have some limited adoption, and you know your data is biased
by that, but it's also the population that you're trying to estimate, right? I mean, the way
you're applying it is the people opting in. So, in some sense, that is the most relevant population
to analyze, but that will evolve over time as there are other incentives for people to kind of
join the party and contribute their data. So, I just think you have to keep considering the evolving
profile of people that opt in. And, you know, I think the larger point in this scenario and others
is making sure that there is a value to the customer so that it feels like a worthwhile
trade-off for them. You know, people, millions of people, most everyone has a smartphone these days.
You're giving up a whole lot of data just by owning that smartphone. And, you know, I think
some of the smartphone companies have made a lot of progress in giving people more control
of what information they're giving up, which is important. But, and you do see various levels of
concern and backlash in particular scenarios where companies are misusing data. But, overall, I think
a lot of people feel like they're getting value out of services like Facebook or YouTube, TikTok,
whatever. And, you know, as long as they feel like there's an equal exchange for what they're
giving up, I think people are increasingly getting comfortable with that. So, I don't know if that
was a direct answer to your question, but it's not an easy, it's not an easy thing to consider,
but it's an important thing when you're doing practical data science, practical machine learning
to kind of think about these second order effects of, you know, not only who is opting into this, but
what impact does my model have, for example, right? You come in with some historical data about
who buys what products and whatever, you build a recommender system, but that system itself is
going to be biasing who purchases what products. And, you know, how do you plan for that bias when
you're trying to, you know, retrain models or continue to develop them and prevent, you know,
building echo chambers, for example. So, I think it requires a lot of thought, a lot of
it's use case specific, but it's a really important consideration for people doing practical
data science work. Yeah, I think you mentioned second and third order effects, that's probably
the more interesting point because I think all of the single applications that we create and
all the models that we're building, we could probably justify each of them individually,
right? There's probably always a good reason. And to be honest, the person that's driving 60
miles an hour down my residential street, I hope they're paying way more in car. You should actually
charge that person more money, but yeah, it's probably a matter of like the micros are okay,
but then you put those all together and you're like, oh man, that's a, now we have a moral
conundrum that we need to deal with more as an industry or society. So, I appreciate that.
Absolutely. I think as a data scientist, you always have to be considering the broader picture. How is
my model going to be used? Is that a valid use of the model given what I know about the data that
went into it and how it was trained? I think there are a lot of pitfalls that several people have
pointed out in recent years for misapplying models. So, it's definitely something that
data scientists need to be aware of. Kind of to your point though about incentives and making
sure people are being charged the right amount for how they're driving. I think one of the
real true selling points about telematics for insurance pricing is that the user is in control.
And that wasn't always the case for traditional characteristics that are used to segment pricing.
If you don't like the fact that you're paying more because you're driving 90 miles an hour
down the highway, well, you can change your behavior and your price will adapt. And I think
that is a satisfying realization for people as well. If you feel like you have control and you
understand why you're paying what you are, there's sort of a feeling of justice with that, I think.
Great. I've been wearing, I'll publicize the boot band for the past few months. So, it collects data
on my heart rate variability and it's awesome. I feel like I am more control over, I don't know,
my whole being. So, yeah, I totally agree. Yeah. I mean, fitness monitoring is a huge industry. I
wear a garment currently. I'm a runner. It's just, at least for a certain type of person,
probably a data scientist, there's just a fascination with collecting data on your
everyday life and just analyzing your heart rate or your sleeping patterns or movement,
et cetera. I actually think that that's one opportunity for expanding the use of telematics
and insurance. Right now, it's mainly seen as a mechanism for giving you a discount, but I think
there might be a market for applying some of the similar types of insights that you get from your
smartwatch to a driving context. That would be interesting to people and also potentially help
coach them on how to develop safer driving habits, both for themselves, but also if you
kind of think through like a teenage driver situation. If you as a parent have more
information about how your teenage children are driving, you can have better conversations with
them about encouraging safe habits and things like that. I think about this a lot, like all the
data that's out there about maybe from, oh, there goes your lights, from like signing up from every
potential discount on every website or like even an electric toothbrush that's like Bluetooth
enabled. I'm like, do I really need that on the toothbrush? Maybe shifting gears a little bit,
I see there's a question that came in around, does Geico IT centrally service all data scientists
across departments and locations, or do you have siloed development in each group?
I think it somewhat varies based on what you mean by IT. So we have different domains
within Geico. I mentioned kind of the three, four ones, claims, product, and customer experience.
From a customer interaction standpoint and what we think of as our front-end applications that
deal directly with the customer, those are segmented teams that sort of own their applications.
When it comes to more of the back-end development like data engineering, cloud infrastructure,
and those sorts of components, those are more centralized and we work with the same team
that kind of serves the needs across those different domains. So it kind of depends on
what part of the data science pipeline we're dealing with.
And I guess kind of on a similar related thread, there's an anonymous question on,
do you need a big budget to support data science properly?
Boy, depends on what you mean by big budget and I guess what you're trying to accomplish.
This is being recorded, don't lie.
For what we're trying to do, I would certainly characterize the budget as fairly large.
Data scientists are an in-demand skill set and you need to be competitive to attract top talent.
And then there's also, there can be big infrastructure costs, especially when you're
talking about petabyte scale data, both in terms of storage, processing, and storage.
In terms of storage processing requirements and so forth. So that is definitely a big investment.
Not every company has the scale of data or the same needs as we do.
So if you're just trying to gain insights or build higher quality reports, I would think
the bar to entry is a lot lower. Not sure there's a single answer, but yeah, I think for me, yes,
it's a significant budget item. I see Steve pointing in the chat,
you need the biggest budget. Yes. It's not untrue.
If you're a startup and you're not a direct technology play that inherently requires
machine learning, this is probably not the best initial investment for you.
So, yeah, it's a big investment.
If you are in that position or maybe comparing like a huge company like Geico and building
out that data science team to a startup, what do you think that a startup should
focus on initially with building out data science?
Well, data science really relies on a solid foundation of data engineering. So I would say,
you know, if you think data science or machine learning is eventually going to be a big
contributor to your bottom line, getting really good at collecting and organizing data
is a great place to start because I think some companies who haven't really
dealt with that fundamental infrastructure hear a lot about all the cool things that
data scientists are doing and big technology companies or internet companies, and they think,
oh, I'm just going to hire a bunch of data scientists and I'm going to be able to do
all these really exciting things. And what that often leads to is a frustrated data science team
because they find out that the data they need is scattered across dozens of different databases
and different environments, different formats, and that's where they end up spending all of
their time pre-processing and building databases just before they can even get to delivering
insights or building models. So I think thinking through your data architecture and your data
strategy early on is pretty critical in my view.
Could you maybe define like levels of data science maturity for companies?
Ah, that's a good question. I would say probably the level one is you've got one, maybe a couple
of data scientists, and you're really just looking for them to derive insights. This is probably a
company that doesn't have a lot of existing analytics support. They're making decisions based
on experience or domain knowledge or things like that, and they really don't have a data-driven
approach at all. And so they hire data scientists and they say, well, what does the data say about
the decisions I'm trying to make? How could I improve upon a very heuristic based decision
making process? And there, I think, the bar is pretty low. You could use a basic data set,
some pretty basic modeling techniques, and probably improve upon what they're doing.
And from there, I mean, there's sort of almost infinite stages in between all the way up to
it's very machine learning driven where they've got hundreds of models that are running that
determine pretty much every aspect of how the customer is interacting with their systems,
from recommender systems to fraud detection to all kinds of personalization opportunities.
Sorry, I'm looking at the chat with the countably infinite versus uncountable infinite stages.
Fun fact, when I was doing my graduate work, I actually studied mathematical logic and set
theory. So I could speak at length about that question in particular, but that's probably not
as relevant to the conversation. But anyway, to the original question and the point, I think there's
just a huge spectrum in between, and it really depends on what the business goals are, data
maturity, and so forth. I would say Geico is somewhere in between those two extremes, probably
further toward the mature data science organization, but probably not as mature
as a company like Netflix or Amazon or Uber or something like that. Thank you. And apologies,
that was my internet cutting out for just a second, but there was a slight delay there.
But I see that Trevor, you asked a great question in the chat as well.
Come on in, Trevor.
Yeah, sorry, sorry.
Sorry, it was my internet there. It gave me the unstable notice.
Yeah, no problem. No problem. This question is a really, really, really important question to me,
because the models that we build, we don't just build them in a lab, right? They impact lives.
You know, they impact lives. So essentially, in this case, whatever the model predicts is
impacting, for example, I'm assuming the rate that someone pays for insurance, right? So
how do you know that your model is actually making the right decision? And so that's key for me,
because I guess I'm from Jamaica. I'm a person of color, and I've read many cases where there are
models that don't behave as well as we'd want them or they should, and the impact on people's
lives is negative. So I just wanted, you know, some insight into that, if you don't mind.
Yeah, it's a great question. So I'll answer kind of the general question of, you know,
how do you know your models are working? And then, you know, I think there was certainly an
ethical AI component to your question, too, which we can talk about.
In general, when you're evaluating a machine learning system, I think of three levels of
monitoring. One is the sort of infrastructure monitoring, the technical system monitoring, you
know, this is a piece of software, it's a, you know, maybe a web service or whatever, and you
need to understand how that system is performing and making sure that, you know, it's able to
handle the volume of requests that are coming into it, you're not seeing, you know, large error
rates, things like that. So there's a sort of low-level technical monitoring that's important.
Then there is what I would call statistical monitoring, which is, is the model reliably
predicting what it was trained to predict? You know, are the distribution of the feature inputs
changing over time? Is the distribution of score changing over time? You know, that's, I think,
a very important diagnostic to understand, you know, whether it's time to retrain your model
because you see drift or, you know, whether there's some change in the population that's
being scored through your model. Those are really important. And then there's the third, which I
think gets closer to what you're asking about, which is what are the downstream business impacts
of the prediction? So, you know, you're predicting whatever it is that you're trying to predict,
but then there's often actions that are taken based on that prediction. And typically there
are business KPIs or maybe other considerations that are associated with those actions. And so
we would typically set up monitoring for some of those things as well. And I think it's important
to have all three levels. To your point about, you know, how models impact people's lives and,
you know, how they might disparately impact certain groups over others. I mean, it's
very important and I think a field that's, or a topic that's getting a lot of
consideration over the recent months and years. Personally, I don't think there's an easy answer
to it. I think it requires an investigation of specific use cases, you know, how the model
interacts with different groups of people. What is the intended impact versus what the actual
impact is? You know, so for example, so there's a lot of talk about AI bias and, you know,
how predictions skew toward one group or another. And, you know, one answer might be saying, well,
we don't want there to be any skew across certain demographic groups. But I think,
and I understand what's behind that, and I think in some cases that might be the answer.
But I also think in some cases that's not really the intent. You know, if you think about, for
example, a product recommendation engine and something like gender. I think a lot of people
would expect and would want there to be some bias in product recommendations across gender.
But in some cases, they might have problems with certain recommendations being targeted at
one gender or another. So there's some nuance there, and it's hard to set a global policy
that I think covers all cases. So again, I think it's one of those things that a data scientist
needs to be aware of. They need to know how their model is going to be used, and they need to
ensure that that is consistent with the data that's being fed into it
and the methodology that's used to make those predictions.
I know in, I think it was a meetup talk with Aetna Insurance, they talked a little bit about,
or CVS Health, talked about an IBM AI Fairness 360 app that they use, and maybe another one that
Google had come out with. Does Geico use something like that internally?
We do not use one of those specific model, or those specific tools. We do have a process for
evaluating the fairness of our models. I don't know that I can get into the specifics of it,
but it is certainly something we consider. Yeah, definitely. Thank you.
I'll just jump in real quick as a follow-up question. When there is discomfort around,
let's say, targeting a certain segment with a certain product, how does that decision get
worked through? I imagine it's the leadership team's responsibility.
Yeah, certainly, leadership is responsible for making the ultimate call there.
Certainly, consult a legal counsel, consider the business impact, the ethical impact,
consider the business impact, the ethical impact, and things like that. We handle those
on a model-by-model basis, but ultimately, it's leadership's call.
There's quite a few anonymous questions still here, so I'm hoping we can go over
the time just a little bit here. One is, with a large data science team, how do you balance
the needs for structure, same language, same coding standards, et cetera,
versus the needs for speed to produce a result? That's a good question.
The way we approach it, I mentioned we had three domains, and those more or less operate as
autonomous teams, but we do coalesce around languages and some of the primary tools.
I don't really see that as an impairment for speed to market or development speed.
I don't see setting up standards around how we're going to structure our code repositories,
or that we're all going to use Python, we're all going to use
Databricks as our spark development environment. I don't really see those as impediments to speed.
I'd be curious to know what the questioner has in mind or what their experience is in terms of
standards getting in the way of speed to market. I'm not sure that we'll get additional context,
just because it was an anonymous question, but I am curious. On that first part of the question,
the need for structure, how do you handle that with teams using R or Python or other languages?
Does that matter? Within my team, we're pretty consistent with what tools we use. It's pretty
much a Python and Spark shop. We don't collaborate as directly with some of the other teams in DICO
that use R. I suppose that would be down the line if we wanted to go there, just because
the code is different. I don't know that those things aren't overcomable, but it would certainly
be a little bit longer to get up to speed on either side, because of that language difference.
It's just really not a problem that we've run into so far.
I know your team mostly uses Python, but I see Ethan just asked a question
if data science teams at DICO use SAS. Hi, Ethan. If it's the Ethan Kang I'm thinking,
I think we have a professional connection in the past. If that's true,
nice to speak with you again. To answer your question, no, we do not.
When I review resumes, we occasionally see that, but at least for the candidates that we review,
that's becoming a dated language that I don't think a lot of people focus on.
And even if you talk to people at SAS, I think they're increasingly looking to support
open source languages like R and Python, even within their platform.
That's kind of how I see it. Ethan, did you want to jump in and weigh in there?
Yeah. Hi, Jo. Nice to see you again. How are you? Good to see you.
Yeah. So when I was at DICO, in the actual department, we all use SAS. So I was just
curious if data science teams use SAS as well. Yeah. I mean, there are certainly other groups
within DICO that use SAS. I think as a company even, we're starting to move
more and more away from that. I mean, you build up code bases over years and years.
It would be difficult to, I think, completely abandon that. But for a lot of the new
development we do, certainly within the analytics space, it's not centered around SAS.
Thank you. Nick, I see you asked a question around sharing data sets. Would you want to
weigh in or jump in and ask that? Sure. I work for a company where we
don't even share data between divisions. But I was wondering, with DICO, being part of Berkshire
Hathaway, and really probably an organization that definitely thinks about the different parts
of its business, is there any sharing or anything like that? Or is that even on a roadmap,
like sharing data, or maybe just the infrastructure between different subsidiaries? Or
yeah, is it something you all ever talk about? That's a good question. There are some cases
where there's sharing of information across Berkshire subsidiaries. So it does happen. But
by and large, the way Berkshire operates, they leave their subsidiaries largely autonomous. And
they sort of function as independent companies to a large degree. Again, not going to say that
there isn't some coordination, but it's really not part of the day-to-day and not the typical
way we operate. So infrastructure, for example, I don't even know what cloud infrastructure or
infrastructure otherwise other companies in the Berkshire portfolio use. We don't share that
across at all. So maybe not as much as you would think. And honestly, if you kind of look at what
Warren Buffett and others in the Berkshire circle say, I mean, they explicitly acknowledge that
they like to keep their subsidiary companies more or less autonomous and self-sufficient.
Similarly to the data that you're using and sharing it among teams,
there was an earlier question on if Geico utilizes data from public safety
answering points or emergency communications.
Ah, public safety. So like, not quite sure what we're referring to there.
Like public service announcements or like, not quite sure, public records?
I'm wondering if it's like, I can only guess what their question is about, but around like
911 records or... Oh, I see. No, not in general.
I'm actually not totally sure what's available in that regard or what information we can get.
We definitely have access to outside data. It's like police reports or public records data
as application in different domains within Geico, but I'm not aware of any
usage of 911 data or anything like that. Okay. And shifting gears a little bit,
I know you mentioned Geico is hiring and I think I saw LinkedIn roles working with telematics data,
but as you're starting to evaluate candidates, I'm curious, what experience are you looking for
what are those roles? So we are interested in hiring
across the spectrum and certainly bringing in more experienced candidates that could come in
at a senior level is a big focus, but we're also interested in people who are just entering the
data science profession. We look for people who have a pretty solid understanding of machine
learning fundamentals. So they're familiar with various algorithms and understand how they work,
what some of the major hyper parameters are and how to tune them, what some of that stuff means.
That's, I think, a pretty fundamental requirement. We like people to have some experience in
working with different data sets, whether it's just SQL experience or to have experience working
in big data ecosystems, that would be great as well. Beyond that, I honestly, I think it's just
really important to have candidates who are enthusiastic, able to think through and solve
problems in efficient ways. So even if you don't have five years of experience developing in Spark
or Python, but you have some baseline knowledge of that and you're really eager and enthusiastic
to learn and you've got a good sense about data and you're able to frame analytical questions well
and create data products that answer those questions. Those are sort of the core
skills that we look for. I'll say most of the people, even at the entry level that we bring in,
do have some sort of advanced degree in some STEM related field and that could vary quite a bit,
honestly. I think there are an increasing number of data analytics or data science
programs at the master's level in particular, but we've also brought in some pretty
strong candidates who have PhDs in physics or theoretical chemistry or even as diverse as
music history. So I don't necessarily think there's one path into data science and we consider
candidates with a diverse range of backgrounds. Great. Frank, I see you had a great question
earlier that I want to make sure we get to around decision making. Would you want to
jump in and ask that one? Sure, I'll try to do it quickly. So it's related to your three
buckets of monitoring or when Trevor asked how do you know if your models are working or right
and you had mentioned that in that last, that third bucket, we set up monitoring for those
things as well and I found it very challenging. You can make predictions statistically, right,
your bucket number two, hey things are all good, these are good predictions, you should use them
to make decisions. Trying to capture when those predictions are used as an input to the decision,
I find that sometimes naturally it can happen where there's a system where there's a
record, but most of the time it is very hard to tell if the predictions are being used.
I come from retail, I'm in the supply chain world, a lot of what we do is still manual,
maybe it's different in your world and if so I'd like to hear about that. Yeah, no it's an
important point. I think the stronger the connection between the model prediction and
the action, the easier it is to measure, but that's not always the case. I mean sometimes
you're providing guidance or recommendations and it's still ultimately up to the decision maker to
factor that in along with many other things and so attributing a specific action to the
model can be difficult. I don't know that there's an easy answer to that all the time,
some of that can be handled though through good experimental design. So you know maybe,
you know in your case in retail, maybe there there's a way of only rolling out a product
in a subset of stores and then you compare that to the stores where it's not. So even
if you can't grow stores, had access to that prediction and this other group didn't
and you hope that through your experimental design you've randomized enough for some of
the other confounding factors and you're able to draw valid inferences about the impact of that.
So I think you just have to think through the experimental design, how you're going to measure
that, keeping in mind just what the business case is and how the prediction is being used.
Yeah for sure, does your team, are there, do they do anything, are they responsible for that,
is there another team that uses your models and then does the experimental design?
Some of that varies by use case and you know frankly the capability and skill set of
the teams that we're partnering with and some of them have you know pretty good analysts that are
good at you know designing how we're going to measure the impact and they're able to drive
some of that reporting independent of us. In some cases we have to take on more of that as well.
So it really just kind of depends. For sure, laughing at the comments forever.
I guess that's, it's ultimately a good measurement, right?
Joel, how does your team help other teams in GEICO improve their knowledge and skills and data science?
Good question. I don't think we have explicit mechanisms for that right now.
You know we don't have like trainings that we lead for other analyst groups.
It might be something we consider as we kind of expand our organization, but most of that
happens I think within the context of teams. You know we're just by the nature of you know
needing to communicate results or communicate how things work to a team that's going to consume
the output. So you have to explain how these things work, how you should interpret them,
you know what does precision mean, what does recall mean, how do these features relate to the target
or you know stuff like that. So it's I would say more informal typically, at least the way
that we operate. I mean aside from training do you have some sort of like internal
community or group where people share different things that they work on or like a slack channel
for people to help each other? Yeah, so we use WebEx Teams which is sort of a slack clone I guess
or like Microsoft Teams, very similar. That's something that we really adopted during the
pandemic and I think it's actually been a great addition to our workflow. So we definitely
communicate a lot through that and share information through different team channels.
So that's a good avenue. Within our data science organization we have
you know regular team meetings where different teams are sharing what they're working on.
We often you know get access to different vendor products that you know will organize
different calls around. So there's some information sharing there, you know attending conferences.
So I guess there's a lot of different mechanisms where people sort of share information or get
information from outside groups that we have available. I probably take some of that for
granted just having always worked at a big company with a lot of resources. I think it's
hard for me to sort of appreciate how that might not be available at smaller companies.
Yeah, I can imagine there's quite a large group of data scientists there. Yeah, I mean so another
example is you know within our larger department that we sit within you know everyone has access
to a Coursera subscription and you know there's obviously tons of resources available there to
learn whatever you're interested in. So that's another example. Nice. As we're all kind of
thinking about some of the use cases at GEICO, I see someone asked a question,
do you have any public-facing applications or is everything that's built only internal?
Public-facing, well I would say yes, maybe not directly but through an integration with one of
our front-end applications. And so if you log into geico.com and you try to get a quote,
you know we would have some technology that's impacting that experience or if you're a Geico
customer and you're submitting a claim, you have technology that would impact your experience
there. So maybe not directly but certainly through those application integrations.
Awesome. And I know as we get to the top of the hour here, I just want to ask you Joel,
if people have other like follow-up questions or want to connect with you, what's the best way
to get connected? Is that LinkedIn? Yeah, LinkedIn would be great. Feel free to you know send a
connection request, send me a message, whatever. I'd be happy to follow up and talk to you about
what we're doing at Geico or provide any you know advice based on my experience and you know working
in data science. Feel free to reach out. Great, thank you Joel. And one other question I wanted
to ask is, I know there's a bunch of people on the call who may be aspiring data science leaders
and what feedback would you or advice would you give to someone hoping to move into a leadership
role? Really pay attention to the business, right? Because ultimately you're there to drive business
results and you know the technology, the methodologies, the statistics and data science
are really interesting. You can dive as deep as you want in that area and have a great career
and be fulfilled in that area. But if you want to move into leadership, you need to learn to
speak the business language, understand the needs of the business that you're trying to serve,
and you know through that I think you can be an effective leader and
understand how to bridge the gap between the technology and the business process that can
leverage that technology. Because a lot of times, I mean that's honestly a very valuable skill,
because a lot of people are good at the technical side. They can you know tell you how machine
learning algorithms work and how to optimize you know the different parameters to predict the value
but they can't really relate to the business problem. And then on the other side, there's a
lot of business leaders who have a very high level understanding of machine learning or AI. They've
read you know Harvard Business Review or something like that, but they don't really
understand it in meaningful terms. So being someone who can bridge that gap I think is a
great way to advance into leadership within data science. Wonderful and I completely agree with
Jeffrey who just said, can you clip that? Thank you, thank you so much Joel.
I want to just open it up to any other questions or anything that I have potentially missed. I'm
trying to read through all the questions on Slido too, so feel free to jump in if there are any final
ones. I had a last question, this is Trevor again. Joel, do you, so you know as a leader right,
do you still get time or do you think it's necessary? And I know it depends on the whole
large or small
what the organization is, but do you actually get time to
Trevor, I think the Wi-Fi dropped for just a second there.
Do you want to ask? I think I maybe see it in the, I can see it in the chat too.
Trevor asks, as a leader do you still get time to devote to actually building models?
So at my level I don't do any of that professionally. I really just don't have the
time. Sometimes in my free time you know, actually I'm currently taking a Coursera course right now,
so I, you know, I can work that in sometimes in the margins, but professionally honestly just
don't have the time for it. So that, I mean that's, I think one of the choices you make
when you decide to go into data science leadership versus, you know, being a senior technical
contributor or something like that, is you recognize that your hands-on time is going to
diminish the higher that you advance. But I think it's important to
invest enough in at least understanding the technologies. I mean data science is a rapidly
developing space, technologies, platforms, tools, methodologies are always moving. I think as a
leader you need to invest enough of your time to understand how to make good decisions
in your job and how to utilize those technologies, where to invest, and those sorts of things to do
that well. So you can't completely, you know, ignore what's going on. I think you have to
what's going on. I think you have to maintain some connection
to some of the lower level details. So it's a balancing act.
Thank you, Joel. And I know we are a little bit past the hour, so there's a few other questions,
but I want to be conscious of your time too, so see if you have a few more minutes to run.
I do have to run unfortunately, but like I said, if you want to follow up with me on LinkedIn,
I'd be happy to, you know, extend the conversation there. Awesome. Well, thank you so much, Joel,
for your time. Really appreciate all the insights, and hopefully we'll see you back
on one of these in the future too. But thank you so much for joining.